README.adoc, before:

= Data Systems Design and Implementation
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
:sectanchors:
:sectlinks:
:sectnumlevels: 6
:sectnums:
:toc: macro
:toclevels: 6
:toc-title:

Collection of useful notes, readings, videos, codes related to data systems design

toc::[]

== Data Architecture


== Data Storage
Terms

* Table Formats (Iceberg, Hudi, Delta, OneTable, etc.).
* Features (ACID transaction, Schema Evolution, Upsert, Time Travel, etc.).
* Tech (
  Copy On Write vs Merge On Read, Compaction, Vacuum,
  OCC (Optimistic Concurrency Control), MVCC (Multiversion Concurrency Control)
)

== Data Consumption

Blogs

* Traveloka - Data Lake API on Microservice Architecture using BigQuery (https://medium.com/traveloka-engineering/data-lake-api-on-microservice-architecture-using-bigquery-10d6e9c5ca8f).
  Best Practices: avoid giving direct access to data platform storage (object storage, database, etc.) as
  it creates a tight coupling to the underlying technology, format, etc. Instead, have an API
  layer in between to decouple that dependency. What's bad about direct access?
    change coordination required between teams.
    lack of access control (column, row levels).
    lack of audit log (who access, download what).
* Building Criteo API, What We’ve Learned
 (https://medium.com/criteo-engineering/building-criteo-api-what-weve-learned-b7f3e7b8d270). Key lessons learned after building a new API ecosystem from scratch.
* Idempotency Keys: How PayPal and Stripe Prevent Duplicate Payment(https://medium.com/@sahintalha1/the-way-psps-such-as-paypal-stripe-and-adyen-prevent-duplicate-payment-idempotency-keys-615845c185bf)
* How We Design Our APIs at Slack
 (https://slack.engineering/how-we-design-our-apis-at-slack/)
* Grafana - How I write HTTP services in Go after 13 years
 (https://grafana.com/blog/2024/02/09/how-i-write-http-services-in-go-after-13-years/)

== Data Processing
Blogs

* [Agoda, How to Design and Maintain a High-Performing Data Pipeline](https://medium.com/agoda-engineering/how-to-design-maintain-a-high-performing-data-pipeline-63b1603b8e4a) 
  ** Data pipeline scalability: SLA, partioning, data freshness, resource usage, scheduling, data dependency, monitoring.
  ** Data quality: freshness, integrity (uniqueness e.g. no dup keys), completeness (e.g. no empty, NULLS),
    accuracy (value is not abnormal by checking with previous trend, ThridEye), 
    consistency (source = destination, Quilliup, running when pipeline completes).
  ** Ensuring data quality: validating before writing to destination, testing, monitoring, alerting, responding,
    automatic Jira tickets creation.
* Scheduling Data Pipelines at Criteo — Part 1
 (https://medium.com/criteo-engineering/scheduling-data-pipelines-at-criteo-part-1-8b257c6c8e55)


Papers

* Apache Arrow DataFusion: A Fast, Embeddable, Modular Analytic Query Engine (https://github.com/apache/arrow-datafusion/issues/6782).
  Written in Rust, uses Apache Arrow as memory model.


== Data Governance
Metadata management, data quality, data veracity, data security, data lineage, etc.

* Open Metadata (https://open-metadata.org/)

=== Data Quality

Blogs

* [How Google, Uber, and Amazon Ensure High-Quality Data at Scale](https://medium.com/swlh/how-3-of-the-top-tech-companies-approach-data-quality-79c3146fd959)
* [Uber - Monitoring Data Quality at Scale with Statistical Modeling](https://www.uber.com/en-VN/blog/monitoring-data-quality-at-scale)
* [LinkedIn - Towards data quality management at LinkedIn](https://engineering.linkedin.com/blog/2022/towards-data-quality-management-at-linkedin)
* [Data Quality: Timeseries Anomaly Detection at Scale with Thirdeye](https://medium.com/the-ab-tasty-tech-blog/data-quality-timeseries-anomaly-detection-at-scale-with-thirdeye-468f771154e6)
* How we deal with Data Quality using Circuit Breakers
 (https://medium.com/@modern-cdo/taming-data-quality-with-circuit-breakers-dbe550d3ca78)
* Lyft - From Big Data to Better Data: Ensuring Data Quality with Verity
 (https://eng.lyft.com/from-big-data-to-better-data-ensuring-data-quality-with-verity-a996b49343f6)
* Data Quality Automation at Twitter
 (https://blog.x.com/engineering/en_us/topics/infrastructure/2022/data-quality-automation-at-twitter)

Papers

* [VLDB, Amazon - Automating Large-Scale Data Quality Verification](https://www.vldb.org/pvldb/vol11/p1781-schelter.pdf). It presents the design choices and architecture of a production-grade system for checking data quality at scale, shows the evaluation result on some datasets.

Best Practices

* too little data quality alerts let important issues go unresolved.
* too many alerts overwhelms and might make the most important ones go un-noticed.
* statistical modeling techniques (PCA, etc.) can be used to reduce computation resource for quality checks.
* separate anomaly detection from anomaly scoring and alerting strategy.

Common Issues

* issues in `metadata category` (data availability, data freshness, schema changes, data completeness)
-> can be obtained without checking dataset content
* issues in `semantic category`(dataset content: column value nullability, duplication, distribution, exceptional values, etc.) 
-> needs data profiling


=== Data Lineage
Blogs

* Data Lineage at Slack (https://slack.engineering/data-lineage-at-slack/).
  ** Lineage service exposes endpoints for ingestion, stores data in RDS.
  ** Ingestion for Airflow DAGs built into existing dags using Airflow callbacks.
  ** Ingestion for Presto dashboards: audit tables, SQL Parsing.
* OpenLineage, open framework for data lineage collection and analysis (https://openlineage.io/)
* How we compute data lineage at Criteo (https://medium.com/criteo-engineering/how-we-compute-data-lineage-at-criteo-b3f09fc5c577)
* Yelp - Spark Data Lineage (https://engineeringblog.yelp.com/2022/08/spark-data-lineage.html)
* Data Lineage: State-of-the-art and Implementation Challenges
 (https://medium.com/bliblidotcom-techblog/data-lineage-state-of-the-art-and-implementation-challenges-1ea8dccde9de)


=== Data Security, Compliance
GDPR, CCPA, PII Protection, etc.

* Lyft - A Federated Approach To Providing User Privacy Rights
 (https://eng.lyft.com/a-federated-approach-to-providing-user-privacy-rights-3d9ab73441d9).
  Technical strategies for CCPA. Implementation of user data export and deletion.
  Federated design with central orchestration for exporting/ deleting.
* Intuit - 10 lessons learned in operationalizing GDPR at scale
 (https://medium.com/ssdr-book/10-lessons-learned-in-operationalizing-gdpr-at-scale-7a41318846b6)


== Data Integration

Blogs

* How Agoda manages 1.8 trillion Events per day on Kafka (https://medium.com/agoda-engineering/how-agoda-manages-1-8-trillion-events-per-day-on-kafka-1d6c3f4a7ad1)
* Apache Kafka Rebalance Protocol, or the magic behind your streams applications  (https://medium.com/streamthoughts/apache-kafka-rebalance-protocol-or-the-magic-behind-your-streams-applications-e94baf68e4f2)


== Machine Learning
* Featureflow: Democratizing ML for Agoda (https://medium.com/agoda-engineering/featureflow-democratizing-ml-for-agoda-aec7a6c45b30)
  - Challenge: time-consuming feature analysis, training, validation vs fast changing customers and competitors in travel industry;
  lacking of consistency from analysis to training, from feature development to deployment.
  - Solution: Featureflow with components (UI, data pipeline, monitoring, sandbox env, experiment platform)
  - Result: feature analysis reduced from a week to a day, quarterly experiments increased from 6 to 20, 
  feature contributors from ~3 to ~50, larger feature pool, more robust feature screening process.
* How ByteDance Scales Offline Inference with multi-modal LLMs to 200 TB Data
 (https://www.anyscale.com/blog/how-bytedance-scales-offline-inference-with-multi-modal-llms-to-200TB-data)
* Building Real-time Machine Learning Foundations at Lyft
 (https://eng.lyft.com/building-real-time-machine-learning-foundations-at-lyft-6dd99b385a4e)

== Platform and Infra

Kubernetes

* Lessons From Our 8 Years Of Kubernetes In Production (https://medium.com/@.anders/learnings-from-our-8-years-of-kubernetes-in-production-two-major-cluster-crashes-ditching-self-0257c09d36cd)


Terraform

* Slack - How We Use Terraform At Slack
 (https://slack.engineering/how-we-use-terraform-at-slack/)

Network

* Slack - Traffic 101: Packets Mostly Flow
 (https://slack.engineering/traffic-101-packets-mostly-flow/)

== Testing

* Slack - Continuous Load Testing
 (https://slack.engineering/continuous-load-testing/)


== Operations

Observability, Monitoring

* Observability @ Data Pipelines
 (https://medium.com/ssdr-book/observability-data-pipelines-99eda62b1704)

Incidents

* Slack’s Incident on 2022-Feb-22
(https://slack.engineering/slacks-incident-on-2-22-22/)

== System Design Resources
Learning Resources Repo

  - https://github.com/karanpratapsingh/system-design
  - https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer
  - https://gist.github.com/vasanthk/485d1c25737e8e72759f

Books

* [Patterns of Distributed Systems. Unmesh Joshi](https://www.amazon.com/Patterns-Distributed-Systems-Addison-Wesley-Signature/dp/0138221987)


Blogs

* Building a Control Plane for Lyft’s Shared Development Environment
 (https://eng.lyft.com/building-a-control-plane-for-lyfts-shared-development-environment-6a40266fcf5e)
* Consistent Hashing: Algorithmic Tradeoffs
  (https://dgryski.medium.com/consistent-hashing-algorithmic-tradeoffs-ef6b8e2fcae8)
* Why Discord is switching from Go to Rust (https://discord.com/blog/why-discord-is-switching-from-go-to-rust),
    more on Reddit (https://www.reddit.com/r/golang/comments/eywx4q/why_discord_is_switching_from_go_to_rust/)
    and HackerNews (https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=26227339)


== Interview Guides
* [Preparing for Interview at Agoda](https://medium.com/agoda-engineering/preparing-for-interview-at-agoda-2c07b7d13ca5): 
Clear guide for the interview process at Agoda with advices for candidates in each stage.

== Databricks

Architecture

* A data architecture pattern to maximize the value of the Lakehouse
 (https://www.databricks.com/blog/data-architecture-pattern-maximize-value-lakehouse.html)

Data Pipelines

* How to Evaluate Data Pipelines for Cost to Performance
 (https://www.databricks.com/blog/2020/11/13/how-to-evaluate-data-pipelines-for-cost-to-performance.html)

Delta Lake

* [Managing Recalls with Barcode Traceability on the Delta Lake](https://www.databricks.com/blog/managing-recalls-barcode-traceability-delta-lake)
* [Creating a Spark Streaming ETL pipeline with Delta Lake at Gousto](https://medium.com/gousto-engineering-techbrunch/creating-a-spark-streaming-etl-pipeline-with-delta-lake-at-gousto-6fcbce36eba6)
  - issues and solutions
    ** costly Spark op `MSCK REPAIR TABLE` because it needs to scan table' sub-tree in S3 bucket. -> use `ALTER TABLE ADD PARTITION` instead.
    ** not caching dataframes for multiple usages. -> use cache
    ** rewriting all destination table incl. old partitions when having a new partition. -> append new partition to destination.
    ** architecture (waiting for CI, Airflow triggering, EMR spinning up, job run, working with AWS console for logs) slowing down development. Min feedback loop of 20 minutes. -> move away from EMR, adopt a platform allowing to have complete control of clusters and prototyping.
  - Databricks Pros
    ** Reducing ETL time, latency from 2 hours to 15s by using streaming job and delta architecture.
    ** Spark Structured Streaming Autoloader helps manage infra (setting up bucket noti, SNS and SQS in the background).
    ** Notebook helps prototype on/ explore production data, debug with traceback and logs interactively. Then CICD to deploy when code is ready.
      This helps reduce dev cycle from 20 mins to seconds.
    ** Costs remain the same as before Databricks. (using smaller instances with streaming cluster, which compensated for DBx higher costs vs EMR).
    ** Reducing complexity in codebase and deployment (no Airflow).
    ** Better ops: performance dashboards, Spark UI, reports.
  - Other topics: DBT for data modeling, Redshift, SSOT.
* [Data Modeling Best Practices & Implementation on a Modern Lakehouse](https://www.databricks.com/blog/data-modeling-best-practices-implementation-modern-lakehouse)

Governance

* Implementing the GDPR 'Right to be Forgotten' in Delta Lake (https://www.databricks.com/blog/2022/03/23/implementing-the-gdpr-right-to-be-forgotten-in-delta-lake.html)
  Approaches: 1-Data Amnesia, 2-Anonymization, 3-Pseudonymization/Normalized tables.
  Speed up point DELETE by data skipping optimization with Z-order on DELETE where fields.


Backfilling

* https://docs.databricks.com/en/ingestion/auto-loader/production.html=trigger-regular-backfills-using-cloudfilesbackfillinterval
* https://community.databricks.com/t5/data-engineering/how-to-make-structured-streaming-with-autoloader-efficiently-and/td-p/47833
* Autoloader start and end date for ingestion (https://community.databricks.com/t5/data-engineering/autoloader-start-and-end-date-for-ingestion/td-p/45523)

Commit message:

Add grab nrt analytics on datalake

README.adoc, after:

= Data Systems Design and Implementation
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
:sectanchors:
:sectlinks:
:sectnumlevels: 6
:sectnums:
:toc: macro
:toclevels: 6
:toc-title:

Collection of useful notes, readings, videos, codes related to data systems design

toc::[]

== Data Architecture

Blogs

* Grab, Enabling near real-time data analytics on the data lake
 (https://engineering.grab.com/enabling-near-realtime-data-analytics)

== Data Storage
Terms

* Table Formats (Iceberg, Hudi, Delta, OneTable, etc.).
* Features (ACID transaction, Schema Evolution, Upsert, Time Travel, etc.).
* Tech (
  Copy On Write vs Merge On Read, Compaction, Vacuum,
  OCC (Optimistic Concurrency Control), MVCC (Multiversion Concurrency Control)
)

== Data Consumption

Blogs

* Traveloka - Data Lake API on Microservice Architecture using BigQuery (https://medium.com/traveloka-engineering/data-lake-api-on-microservice-architecture-using-bigquery-10d6e9c5ca8f).
  Best Practices: avoid giving direct access to data platform storage (object storage, database, etc.) as
  it creates a tight coupling to the underlying technology, format, etc. Instead, have an API
  layer in between to decouple that dependency. What's bad about direct access?
    change coordination required between teams.
    lack of access control (column, row levels).
    lack of audit log (who access, download what).
* Building Criteo API, What We’ve Learned
 (https://medium.com/criteo-engineering/building-criteo-api-what-weve-learned-b7f3e7b8d270). Key lessons learned after building a new API ecosystem from scratch.
* Idempotency Keys: How PayPal and Stripe Prevent Duplicate Payment(https://medium.com/@sahintalha1/the-way-psps-such-as-paypal-stripe-and-adyen-prevent-duplicate-payment-idempotency-keys-615845c185bf)
* How We Design Our APIs at Slack
 (https://slack.engineering/how-we-design-our-apis-at-slack/)
* Grafana - How I write HTTP services in Go after 13 years
 (https://grafana.com/blog/2024/02/09/how-i-write-http-services-in-go-after-13-years/)

== Data Processing
Blogs

* [Agoda, How to Design and Maintain a High-Performing Data Pipeline](https://medium.com/agoda-engineering/how-to-design-maintain-a-high-performing-data-pipeline-63b1603b8e4a) 
  ** Data pipeline scalability: SLA, partioning, data freshness, resource usage, scheduling, data dependency, monitoring.
  ** Data quality: freshness, integrity (uniqueness e.g. no dup keys), completeness (e.g. no empty, NULLS),
    accuracy (value is not abnormal by checking with previous trend, ThridEye), 
    consistency (source = destination, Quilliup, running when pipeline completes).
  ** Ensuring data quality: validating before writing to destination, testing, monitoring, alerting, responding,
    automatic Jira tickets creation.
* Scheduling Data Pipelines at Criteo — Part 1
 (https://medium.com/criteo-engineering/scheduling-data-pipelines-at-criteo-part-1-8b257c6c8e55)


Papers

* Apache Arrow DataFusion: A Fast, Embeddable, Modular Analytic Query Engine (https://github.com/apache/arrow-datafusion/issues/6782).
  Written in Rust, uses Apache Arrow as memory model.


== Data Governance
Metadata management, data quality, data veracity, data security, data lineage, etc.

* Open Metadata (https://open-metadata.org/)

=== Data Quality

Blogs

* [How Google, Uber, and Amazon Ensure High-Quality Data at Scale](https://medium.com/swlh/how-3-of-the-top-tech-companies-approach-data-quality-79c3146fd959)
* [Uber - Monitoring Data Quality at Scale with Statistical Modeling](https://www.uber.com/en-VN/blog/monitoring-data-quality-at-scale)
* [LinkedIn - Towards data quality management at LinkedIn](https://engineering.linkedin.com/blog/2022/towards-data-quality-management-at-linkedin)
* [Data Quality: Timeseries Anomaly Detection at Scale with Thirdeye](https://medium.com/the-ab-tasty-tech-blog/data-quality-timeseries-anomaly-detection-at-scale-with-thirdeye-468f771154e6)
* How we deal with Data Quality using Circuit Breakers
 (https://medium.com/@modern-cdo/taming-data-quality-with-circuit-breakers-dbe550d3ca78)
* Lyft - From Big Data to Better Data: Ensuring Data Quality with Verity
 (https://eng.lyft.com/from-big-data-to-better-data-ensuring-data-quality-with-verity-a996b49343f6)
* Data Quality Automation at Twitter
 (https://blog.x.com/engineering/en_us/topics/infrastructure/2022/data-quality-automation-at-twitter)

Papers

* [VLDB, Amazon - Automating Large-Scale Data Quality Verification](https://www.vldb.org/pvldb/vol11/p1781-schelter.pdf). It presents the design choices and architecture of a production-grade system for checking data quality at scale, shows the evaluation result on some datasets.

Best Practices

* too little data quality alerts let important issues go unresolved.
* too many alerts overwhelms and might make the most important ones go un-noticed.
* statistical modeling techniques (PCA, etc.) can be used to reduce computation resource for quality checks.
* separate anomaly detection from anomaly scoring and alerting strategy.

Common Issues

* issues in `metadata category` (data availability, data freshness, schema changes, data completeness)
-> can be obtained without checking dataset content
* issues in `semantic category`(dataset content: column value nullability, duplication, distribution, exceptional values, etc.) 
-> needs data profiling


=== Data Lineage
Blogs

* Data Lineage at Slack (https://slack.engineering/data-lineage-at-slack/).
  ** Lineage service exposes endpoints for ingestion, stores data in RDS.
  ** Ingestion for Airflow DAGs built into existing dags using Airflow callbacks.
  ** Ingestion for Presto dashboards: audit tables, SQL Parsing.
* OpenLineage, open framework for data lineage collection and analysis (https://openlineage.io/)
* How we compute data lineage at Criteo (https://medium.com/criteo-engineering/how-we-compute-data-lineage-at-criteo-b3f09fc5c577)
* Yelp - Spark Data Lineage (https://engineeringblog.yelp.com/2022/08/spark-data-lineage.html)
* Data Lineage: State-of-the-art and Implementation Challenges
 (https://medium.com/bliblidotcom-techblog/data-lineage-state-of-the-art-and-implementation-challenges-1ea8dccde9de)


=== Data Security, Compliance
GDPR, CCPA, PII Protection, etc.

* Lyft - A Federated Approach To Providing User Privacy Rights
 (https://eng.lyft.com/a-federated-approach-to-providing-user-privacy-rights-3d9ab73441d9).
  Technical strategies for CCPA. Implementation of user data export and deletion.
  Federated design with central orchestration for exporting/ deleting.
* Intuit - 10 lessons learned in operationalizing GDPR at scale
 (https://medium.com/ssdr-book/10-lessons-learned-in-operationalizing-gdpr-at-scale-7a41318846b6)


== Data Integration

Blogs

* How Agoda manages 1.8 trillion Events per day on Kafka (https://medium.com/agoda-engineering/how-agoda-manages-1-8-trillion-events-per-day-on-kafka-1d6c3f4a7ad1)
* Apache Kafka Rebalance Protocol, or the magic behind your streams applications  (https://medium.com/streamthoughts/apache-kafka-rebalance-protocol-or-the-magic-behind-your-streams-applications-e94baf68e4f2)


== Machine Learning
* Featureflow: Democratizing ML for Agoda (https://medium.com/agoda-engineering/featureflow-democratizing-ml-for-agoda-aec7a6c45b30)
  - Challenge: time-consuming feature analysis, training, validation vs fast changing customers and competitors in travel industry;
  lacking of consistency from analysis to training, from feature development to deployment.
  - Solution: Featureflow with components (UI, data pipeline, monitoring, sandbox env, experiment platform)
  - Result: feature analysis reduced from a week to a day, quarterly experiments increased from 6 to 20, 
  feature contributors from ~3 to ~50, larger feature pool, more robust feature screening process.
* How ByteDance Scales Offline Inference with multi-modal LLMs to 200 TB Data
 (https://www.anyscale.com/blog/how-bytedance-scales-offline-inference-with-multi-modal-llms-to-200TB-data)
* Building Real-time Machine Learning Foundations at Lyft
 (https://eng.lyft.com/building-real-time-machine-learning-foundations-at-lyft-6dd99b385a4e)

== Platform and Infra

Kubernetes

* Lessons From Our 8 Years Of Kubernetes In Production (https://medium.com/@.anders/learnings-from-our-8-years-of-kubernetes-in-production-two-major-cluster-crashes-ditching-self-0257c09d36cd)


Terraform

* Slack - How We Use Terraform At Slack
 (https://slack.engineering/how-we-use-terraform-at-slack/)

Network

* Slack - Traffic 101: Packets Mostly Flow
 (https://slack.engineering/traffic-101-packets-mostly-flow/)

== Testing

* Slack - Continuous Load Testing
 (https://slack.engineering/continuous-load-testing/)


== Operations

Observability, Monitoring

* Observability @ Data Pipelines
 (https://medium.com/ssdr-book/observability-data-pipelines-99eda62b1704)

Incidents

* Slack’s Incident on 2022-Feb-22
(https://slack.engineering/slacks-incident-on-2-22-22/)

== System Design Resources
Learning Resources Repo

  - https://github.com/karanpratapsingh/system-design
  - https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer
  - https://gist.github.com/vasanthk/485d1c25737e8e72759f

Books

* [Patterns of Distributed Systems. Unmesh Joshi](https://www.amazon.com/Patterns-Distributed-Systems-Addison-Wesley-Signature/dp/0138221987)


Blogs

* Building a Control Plane for Lyft’s Shared Development Environment
 (https://eng.lyft.com/building-a-control-plane-for-lyfts-shared-development-environment-6a40266fcf5e)
* Consistent Hashing: Algorithmic Tradeoffs
  (https://dgryski.medium.com/consistent-hashing-algorithmic-tradeoffs-ef6b8e2fcae8)
* Why Discord is switching from Go to Rust (https://discord.com/blog/why-discord-is-switching-from-go-to-rust),
    more on Reddit (https://www.reddit.com/r/golang/comments/eywx4q/why_discord_is_switching_from_go_to_rust/)
    and HackerNews (https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=26227339)


== Interview Guides
* [Preparing for Interview at Agoda](https://medium.com/agoda-engineering/preparing-for-interview-at-agoda-2c07b7d13ca5): 
Clear guide for the interview process at Agoda with advices for candidates in each stage.

== Databricks

Architecture

* A data architecture pattern to maximize the value of the Lakehouse
 (https://www.databricks.com/blog/data-architecture-pattern-maximize-value-lakehouse.html)

Data Pipelines

* How to Evaluate Data Pipelines for Cost to Performance
 (https://www.databricks.com/blog/2020/11/13/how-to-evaluate-data-pipelines-for-cost-to-performance.html)

Delta Lake

* [Managing Recalls with Barcode Traceability on the Delta Lake](https://www.databricks.com/blog/managing-recalls-barcode-traceability-delta-lake)
* [Creating a Spark Streaming ETL pipeline with Delta Lake at Gousto](https://medium.com/gousto-engineering-techbrunch/creating-a-spark-streaming-etl-pipeline-with-delta-lake-at-gousto-6fcbce36eba6)
  - issues and solutions
    ** costly Spark op `MSCK REPAIR TABLE` because it needs to scan table' sub-tree in S3 bucket. -> use `ALTER TABLE ADD PARTITION` instead.
    ** not caching dataframes for multiple usages. -> use cache
    ** rewriting all destination table incl. old partitions when having a new partition. -> append new partition to destination.
    ** architecture (waiting for CI, Airflow triggering, EMR spinning up, job run, working with AWS console for logs) slowing down development. Min feedback loop of 20 minutes. -> move away from EMR, adopt a platform allowing to have complete control of clusters and prototyping.
  - Databricks Pros
    ** Reducing ETL time, latency from 2 hours to 15s by using streaming job and delta architecture.
    ** Spark Structured Streaming Autoloader helps manage infra (setting up bucket noti, SNS and SQS in the background).
    ** Notebook helps prototype on/ explore production data, debug with traceback and logs interactively. Then CICD to deploy when code is ready.
      This helps reduce dev cycle from 20 mins to seconds.
    ** Costs remain the same as before Databricks. (using smaller instances with streaming cluster, which compensated for DBx higher costs vs EMR).
    ** Reducing complexity in codebase and deployment (no Airflow).
    ** Better ops: performance dashboards, Spark UI, reports.
  - Other topics: DBT for data modeling, Redshift, SSOT.
* [Data Modeling Best Practices & Implementation on a Modern Lakehouse](https://www.databricks.com/blog/data-modeling-best-practices-implementation-modern-lakehouse)

Governance

* Implementing the GDPR 'Right to be Forgotten' in Delta Lake (https://www.databricks.com/blog/2022/03/23/implementing-the-gdpr-right-to-be-forgotten-in-delta-lake.html)
  Approaches: 1-Data Amnesia, 2-Anonymization, 3-Pseudonymization/Normalized tables.
  Speed up point DELETE by data skipping optimization with Z-order on DELETE where fields.


Backfilling

* https://docs.databricks.com/en/ingestion/auto-loader/production.html=trigger-regular-backfills-using-cloudfilesbackfillinterval
* https://community.databricks.com/t5/data-engineering/how-to-make-structured-streaming-with-autoloader-efficiently-and/td-p/47833
* Autoloader start and end date for ingestion (https://community.databricks.com/t5/data-engineering/autoloader-start-and-end-date-for-ingestion/td-p/45523)
